---
title: Upgrading from 0.6.x
---


# Upgrading from 0.6.x
Upgrading to Marathon 0.7.0 is straight forward if you haven't been using 
any of the docker features.

##TODO: Test if Mesos 0.20.0 is a requirement


## v1 API

The v1 API has been removed from Marathon. See [REST API]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/rest-api.md) for up to
date documentation of the REST API.

## HAProxy Bridge

Make sure you're using the latest version of the script, as `/v1/endpoints`
no longer available.

## Deployment Design

There is a new set of features specifically dedicated to deploying your app.
Your app will automatically be updated to make use of these features.
See the [full docs]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/deployment-design-doc.md) for details.

## Artifact Store

Marathon now has support for configuring an artifact cache that can be used 
when deploying your app, this facilitates removing load from package servers
and shifts the load to something like HDFS.
See the [full docs]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/artifact-store.md) for details.

## Docker

<div class="alert alert-info">
  <strong>Note:</strong> All commands below assume `mesos-slave` is being ran
  as a service using the package provided by 
  [mesosphere](https://mesosphere.io/2014/07/17/mesosphere-package-repositories/)
</div>

1. [Upgrade Mesos](http://mesos.apache.org/documentation/latest/upgrades/) to version `0.20.0` or better
2. Update slave configuration to specify the use of the docker containerizer
  <div class="alert alert-info">
    <strong>Note:</strong> The order of the parameters to `containerizers` is important. 
    It specifies the priority used when choosing the containerizer to launch
    the task.
  </div>
  ```bash
  $ echo 'docker,mesos' > /etc/mesos-slave/containerizers`
  ```
3. Increase the executor timeout
  ```bash
  $ echo '5mins' > /etc/mesos-slave/executor_registration_timeout`
  ```
4. Restart `mesos-slave` process to load the new configuration
5. Ensure Apps you're deploying have non-conflicting ports
  * In Mesos 0.20.0 only the host (`--net=host`) Docker networking mode is supported.


### Updating from Deimos

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  <strong>Careful:</strong> Deimos supported the fetching of `s3` URLs using the
  `aws` commandline tool and IAM roles, mesos only supports `s3` URLs if HDFS 
  is also running on the slave. Using the `https` URL for the resource will not
  take IAM roles into account.
</div>

1. Remove Deimos slave configuration
  1. `rm /etc/mesos-slave/containerizer_path`
  2. `rm /etc/mesos-slave/isolation`
  3. `rm /etc/deimos.cfg`
2. Uninstall Deimos
  1. `pip uninstall deimos`
3. Restart `mesos-slave` process to load the new configuration


### New container format

The old container format has been replaced with a new format.
Therefore the following changes are **obligatory** for Marathon users
upgrading to `0.7.x` who were previously using
[Deimos](https://github.com/mesosphere/deimos)  to run Docker containers.

Previously, the `container` field looked like this:

```json
{
  "container": {
    "image": "docker:///megacorp/product:1.2.3",
    "options": [
      "-v", "/var/data/a:/etc/a:ro",
      "-v", "/var/data/b:/etc/b:rw",
      "-e", "FOO=bar",
      "-p", "443:443"
    ]
  }
}
```

Here is the `container` field, translated to the new format:

```json
{
  "container": {
    "type": "DOCKER",
    "docker": {
      "image": "megacorp/product:1.2.3"
    },
    "volumes": [
      {
        "hostPath": "/var/data/a",
        "containerPath": "/etc/a",
        "mode": "RO"
      },
      {
        "hostPath": "/var/data/b",
        "containerPath": "/etc/b",
        "mode": "RW"
      }
    ]
  },
  "env": {
    "FOO": "bar"
  },
  "ports": [443],
  "requirePorts": true
}
```

## Resources

- [Native Docker Containers with Mesos and Marathon]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/native-docker.md)
